
[PAGE 1]
PROJECT KICKSTART

SERVICE AGREEMENT

JSA TEMPLATE1

J. Sagar Associates I advocates & solicitors

Ahmedabad  |  Bengaluru  |  Chennai  |  Gurugram  |  Hyderabad  |  Mumbai  |  New Delhi

1 This is a template. You are requested to consult a JSA attorney for any transaction specific
legal and practical advice on this document.

[PAGE 2]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

2

SERVICES AGREEMENT

BETWEEN

[INSERT COMPANY NAME]

AND

[INSERT COMPANY NAME]

DATED (E.g. January 1, 2018)

[PAGE 3]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

3

CONTENTS

1.
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION ................................................ 5
2.
APPOINTMENT OF SERVICE PROVIDER AND SCOPE OF
SERVICES ................................................................................................... 8
3.
CONSIDERATION ................................................................................... 11
4.
OWNERSHIP AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS .............. 12
5.
PERSONNEL ............................................................................................. 13
6.
CONSULTANTS ....................................................................................... 14
7.
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES .......................................... 15
8.
INDEMNIFICATION ............................................................................... 16
9.
TERM AND TERMINATION .................................................................. 17
10.
NON-COMPETE ....................................................................................... 18
11.
NON-SOLICITATION .............................................................................. 18
12.
ANNOUNCEMENTS ................................................................................ 19
13.
CONFIDENTIALITY ............................................................................... 19
14.
COSTS AND EXPENSES.......................................................................... 21
15.
NOTICES ................................................................................................... 21
16.
ENTIRE AGREEMENT ........................................................................... 23
17.
ASSIGNMENT .......................................................................................... 23
18.
FURTHER ASSURANCES ....................................................................... 23
19.
AMENDMENTS AND WAIVERS............................................................ 24
20.
SEVERABILITY ....................................................................................... 24
21.
COUNTERPARTS .................................................................................... 25
22.
RIGHTS OF THIRD PARTIES ................................................................ 25
23.
SURVIVABILITY ..................................................................................... 25
24.
CUMULATIVE RIGHTS AND SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE............... 26
25.
NO AGENCY OR PARTNERSHIP .......................................................... 26
26.
GOVERNING LAW, JURISDICTION AND DISPUTE
RESOLUTION .......................................................................................... 27
SCHEDULE I ......................................................................................................... 30

[PAGE 4]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

4

SERVICES AGREEMENT

This Services Agreement (“Agreement”) executed at [insert place] as on this [insert date] by and
between:

[insert full name of the company], an Indian company incorporated under the provisions of the
[Companies Act, 1956]/ [Companies Act, 2013] and having its registered office at [insert registered
address of the company]  (hereinafter referred to as the “Service Provider”, which expression shall,
unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof, be deemed include its successors and permitted
assigns);

AND

[insert full name of the company], an Indian company incorporated under the provisions of the
[Companies Act, 1956]/ [Companies Act, 2013] and having its registered office at [insert registered
address of the company]  (hereinafter referred to as the “Customer”, which expression shall, unless
repugnant to the context or meaning thereof, be deemed include its successors and permitted assigns).

The Service Provider and Customer shall, wherever the context may warrant, be individually referred
to as a “Party” and collectively as the “Parties”.2

WHEREAS

A.
Customer is engaged in the business of [insert details of business] (“Business”);3

2 In the event that the Parties are natural person/ partnerships/ proprietorship concern, necessary
changes should be made.
3 It is important that the nature of business is clearly delineated. Restrictions and obligations in the
Agreement associated with business, such as non-compete provisions, rely on this clarity.

[PAGE 5]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

5

B.
Service Provider is engaged in the business of [insert details of business];

C.
Customer wishes to procure certain services listed in SCHEDULE I (hereinafter called
“Services”)4 from Service Provider, and Service Provider agrees to supply the Services to
Customer, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and agreements set forth in this
Agreement, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged the Service Provider and Customer agree
as follows:

1.
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION

1.1
In this Agreement, (including the recitals above and the Schedules hereto), except where the
context otherwise requires, the following words and expressions will mean the following:

“Applicable Law” means all statutes, rules, regulations, bye-laws, orders, ordinances,
notifications, of any Governmental Authority or any person acting under the authority of any
Governmental Authority or of any statutory authority, whether in effect on the date of this
Agreement or thereafter.

“Background IPR” means any Intellectual Property Rights discovered or created by Service
Provider incidental to but not directly related to the Deliverables; any data used to generate the
Deliverables under this Agreement; any pre-existing or other proprietary methodologies used
for provision of Services or any works of authorship that have not been created specifically for
Customer, or pre-existing, underlying or commonly used computer programs, methodologies,
software, architecture, designs, tools, specifications, drawings, samples, records, code,
processes and/or other development tools or other work products and any Intellectual Property
Rights thereto, which have been originated, developed, acquired or purchased by Service
Provider, not specific to the Deliverables provided.

4 This forms a crucial part of the Agreement. There should be absolute clarity on what is included in
the scope of ‘Services’. You may be as detailed as possible while describing ‘Services’ in the Schedule.

[PAGE 6]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

6

“Business” has the meaning given in Recital A.

“Business Day” means any day of the week (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and public
holidays) on which commercial banks are open for business in [insert the relevant places].

“Confidential Information” has the meaning given in Clause 13.1.

“Consultants” has the meaning given in Clause 6.1.

“Deliverables” means all deliverables to be provided by Service Provider to Customer pursuant
to Services provided under this Agreement.

“Disclosing Party” has the meaning given in Clause 13.1(d).

“Effective Date” means the date of execution of this Agreement.5

“Fees” has the meaning given in Clause 3.1.

“Government Approval” means any license, consent, permit, establishment registration,
approval, or authorization of any person or any notice to any person, the granting of which is
required under Applicable Law for the consummation of the transaction contemplated by this
Agreement.

“Governmental Authority” means any: (a) federal or central, state, local or municipal
authority; (b) governmental or quasi-governmental authority; (c) individual, entity or body
exercising any executive, legislative, judicial, administrative, regulatory, police, military or
taxing authority.
“Indemnified Persons” has the meaning given in Clause 8.1.

“Intellectual Property Rights” means any patents (including any registration, extension, re-
examination, re-issue, continuation, or renewal thereof), copyrights (including any registration

5  This may even be a later date when the Services commence.

[PAGE 7]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

7

or renewal thereof), trade secrets, design registrations, trademarks (including any registrations
and the goodwill associated therewith), service marks, trade names, trade dress, business
names, domain names, source code, object code, test results, know-how, ideas, or foreign
equivalents of the foregoing, and any other proprietary rights of any nature.

“Losses” has the meaning given in Clause 8.1.

“Notice” has the meaning given in Clause 15.1.

“Personnel” has the meaning given in Clause 5.1.

“Receiving Party” has the meaning given in Clause 13.1.

“Services” has the meaning given in Recital C.

“Term” has the meaning given in Clause 9.1.

1.2
In this Agreement:

(a)
References to a statute or statutory provision or order or regulation includes that statute,
provision, order or regulation as amended, modified, re-enacted or replaced from time
to time.

(b)
Headings to Clauses are for information only and will not form part of the operative
provisions of this Agreement and will not be taken into consideration in its
interpretation or construction.

(c)
References to Recitals, Clauses or Schedules are to recitals and clauses of or schedules
to this Agreement and references to paragraphs are to paragraphs of the relevant
Schedule.

(d)
Schedules form part of this Agreement and have effect as if set out in full in the body

[PAGE 8]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

8

of this Agreement. Any reference to this Agreement includes the Schedules.6

(e)
Reference to one gender includes a reference to the other and words importing the
singular include the plural and vice versa.

(f)
A person includes a natural person, corporate or unincorporated body (whether or not
having separate legal personality).

(g)
References to the words “include(s)” or “including” or “amongst others” will be
construed as being followed by “without limitation”.

2.
APPOINTMENT OF SERVICE PROVIDER AND SCOPE OF SERVICES7

2.1
Appointment. Customer hereby appoints Service Provider as a [non-exclusive]8 service
provider to provide Services in the manner as stipulated herein in this Agreement.

2.2
Service Levels. All Services shall be performed by Service Provider promptly and diligently
at a level of proficiency expected of a service provider with the background and experience that

6The purpose of this clause is to expressly incorporate the wording of the Schedules into the body of the
Agreement, thereby ensuring that they are given contractual effect. The Schedules are intended to be
treated as part of the Agreement, rather than merely being ancillary to it.
7Depending on the nature and duration of Services, the Parties may choose to either rely solely on this
Agreement for the entire services, or choose to have in place a system of Statements of Work (SoW)
issued from time to time. SoWs are usually issued when there is recurring work required from Service
Provider, with commercial aspects differing for each piece of work. This Agreement presently does not
envisage a SoW based model. If the SoW model is to be followed, certain changes may need to be made
to the language.
8 A discussion on exclusivity is important. As a Service Provider, it may be commercial prudent to seek
exclusivity, i.e. where Customer is not permitted to approach another service provider for the same or
similar Services. For a Customer it may be preferable that the arrangement be kept non-exclusive. This
gives the Customer the ability to approach third parties when the Services provided under this
Agreement are not fully satisfactory, or where Customer has the need to appoint multiple service
providers.

[PAGE 9]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

9

Service Provider has represented it has, and shall meet the quality standards set by Customer.9
If performance of Services is not up to the required standard, Customer reserves the right to
terminate this Agreement or adjust the Fees provided under Clause 3.1 below, forthwith upon
notice to Service Provider. Customer shall provide such access to its information, property and
personnel as may be reasonably required by Service Provider to perform Services.10

2.3
Place of Work. Service Provider may perform Services for Customer from any location,
including any location designated by Service Provider.11

2.4
Acceptance of Deliverables. Service Provider shall provide all Deliverables to Customer as
per agreed timelines. Each Deliverable shall be in a form in which it can be tested and evaluated
by Customer. Unless a different time period is agreed to by the Parties in writing, Customer
shall have a period of [insert number] [insert number in words] days12 to review and test
each Deliverable for substantial conformity with the requirements of this Agreement. If a
Deliverable does not substantially conform to agreed specifications in the reasonable opinion
of Customer, Customer shall provide a written statement which identifies in reasonable detail

9 Another way of drafting this provision would be that Service Provider will perform Services as per
best industry practice. The term ‘best industry practice’ does not have a set definition. So the Clause,
upon revision, becomes more general in nature, and, to this extent, slightly more favourable to Service
Provider. A more Service Provider friendly provision would be that Service Provider will perform to
the best of its abilities.
10 Where the nature of services are complex or technical (for example, technology outsourcing services,
server hosting services, payment processing services, etc.) Customers may choose to have a separate
service level arrangement (SLA) that defines the level of service expected. This may include, among
other things, down-times, efficiency levels and issue-redressal speeds. In such circumstances, SLAs are
annexed to the main agreement. Service credits/ incentives are provided for meeting service levels,
while penalties may be imposed for not meeting them. We have not included these aspects in this
Agreement.
11In case the Services are to be performed on Customer premises, or in case the nature of Services is
such that location is important, this Clause may be amended to give Customer the ability to choose
location.
12 Should ideally be not more than 30 days.

[PAGE 10]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

10

all deficiencies and other identified issues resulting in determination of substantial non-
conformity.13

2.5
Compliance with Applicable Law. Service Provider shall obtain and maintain all
Governmental Approvals as may be required by it to provide Services.14 Service Provider shall
be responsible to Government authorities in the provision of Services, towards obtaining
statutory registrations, co-ordination with Government authorities and compliance with
Applicable Law.15

2.6
Change in Applicable Law. Service Provider shall promptly identify and notify Customer of
any changes in Applicable Law that may relate to Service Provider’s performance of Services.
The Parties shall work together to identify the impact of such changes on performance of
Services. If such changes prevent Service Provider from performing its obligations under this
Agreement, the Parties shall agree to implement a suitable workaround until such time as
Service Provider can perform its obligations under this Agreement without such workaround.
If such workaround results in an increase in the charges to Customer under this Agreement,
then Customer shall have the right to terminate the affected portion of Service Provider’s
obligations. Upon the implementation of such workaround, the Parties shall negotiate and
implement an equitable adjustment to the applicable Fees.16

13 This Clause may not be applicable in cases where Services provided cannot be tangibly tested or
verified, i.e. where the Deliverable itself is in the form of continuously provided services. This may
apply to specific service projects that are undertaken.
14A similar obligation for compliance with applicable laws may be placed on Customer, if requested by
Service Provider.
15 If you would like to impose more obligations on Service Provider, Service Provider may be asked to
provide Customer with the list of documents needed to obtain such registrations or to make any filings
with Government authorities. Service Provider may be asked to assist Customer in collating all
requisite information and making all applications on a timely basis to Government authorities. Service
Provider may also be asked to follow up with the Government authorities and obtain necessary
registrations.
16This provision would be relevant where Services fall under a strictly regulated space in India, or an
emerging space where one can expect a change in law. Where Services provided are in the nature of
general consultancy services, this does not assume as much significance.

[PAGE 11]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

11

2.7
Delays. Service Provider shall identify and resolve any problems related to Services that may
impede or delay timely rendering of Services. Where Service Provider has not performed or
may not be able to perform its responsibilities with regard to the Services or meet any prescribed
timelines mutually agreed between the Parties in relation to the Services, Service Provider shall
promptly disclose such information to Customer and identify for Customer’s consideration and
approval, specific measures to address such delay and mitigate the risks associated therewith.
Customer shall not be obligated to agree to any extension of time unless Service Provider can
demonstrate to Customer’s satisfaction that Service Provider has used every reasonable effort
to meet the prescribed timelines. Any agreement to an extension of time under this paragraph
shall not constitute a waiver or release of any rights that Customer may have under this
Agreement.

2.8
Single Point of Contact. For proper coordination between Parties, the work assignment to
and coor dinat ion wit h Service Provider will be done by a single representative
nominated by Customer. This representative will coordinate with Customer and will be the first
escalation point for both sides to resolve any issues related to engagement, execution, delivery,
scheduling as well as the relationship as a whole.17

3.
CONSIDERATION

3.1
Rates for Services. Customer agrees to pay Service Provider for the Services performed at the
rates set forth below (“Fees”).

[fee structure to be included]18

3.2
Invoices. Service Provider shall provide Customer an invoice for Fees due as per with the
payment schedule agreed by the Parties.19 Payment of any invoice is due within [insert

17This is usually a practical necessity in order to avoid multiple channels of communication. You may
consider if this is required in your case.
18The Fee structure needs to be determined by the Parties. Some examples include: (a) One-time
payment on completion of Services; (b) retainer arrangement on a periodic basis; (c) one-time set-up
fee, followed by periodic payments; and (d) SoW-linked payments. Depending on what works for the
Parties, appropriate details need to be inserted.
19This may be clarified in the immediately preceding Clause, or by way of a schedule.

[PAGE 12]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

12

number] [insert number in words] days20 of receipt of such invoice by Customer. If Customer
objects to any invoice, it shall, within [insert number] [insert number in words] days21 of
receipt of such invoice, send a written notice to Service Provider specifying the reason for such
objection and shall pay the undisputed portion of such invoice. The Parties will negotiate in
good faith to resolve promptly any invoice that is disputed. Any invoice dispute that cannot be
resolved by the Parties will be resolved in accordance with Clause 26 (Governing Law,
Jurisdiction and Dispute Resolution).

3.3
Billing Records. Service Provider shall, at all times, maintain accurate billing records and
invoices of the expenses incurred, if any, for providing Services which shall be provided
to Customer as supporting document along with the invoice raised.

3.4
Taxes and Withholding. Service Provider shall be responsible for paying taxes in the nature
of transactional taxes applicable for this Agreement. Transaction taxes shall include, without
limitation, sales tax, excise tax, value added tax, goods and services tax and similar taxes. Each
Party shall be responsible for applicable taxes imposed on its income, assets or capital.

4.
OWNERSHIP AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS22

4.1
Ownership. As between the Parties, Customer shall solely and exclusively own all right, title
and ownership interest in and to the Deliverables and Intellectual Property Rights over such
Deliverables and/ or shall hold appropriate licenses over the same from its affiliates. At no time
during or after the term of this Agreement, shall Service Provider challenge or assist any third
party to challenge Customer’s Intellectual Property Rights associated with the Deliverables.

20This would depend on the credit period provided by Service Provider.
21This may be commercially evaluated. 10 days could be suggested here, as an example.
22The ownership of intellectual property rights (IPR) over Deliverables is important where the nature
of Services provided involves the use or development of IPR. Typically, rights over Deliverables
(commissioned by Customer) would belong to Customer, while any IPR already owned by Service
Provider prior to undertaking Services, or any IPR developed unrelated to the Deliverables, would
belong to Service Provider. We have included this concept here. In certain cases, due to the nature of
services and the relationship between parties, Service Provider may retain all IPR over Deliverables,
which will then be licensed to Customer. If that be the case, this Clause may need to be suitably
amended. Again, this Clause does not assume a critical nature where the Services do not involve
development or transfer of IPR. An example would be general consultancy services.

[PAGE 13]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

13

4.2
Background IPR. Service Provider shall identify in writing all Background IPR that Service
Provider plans to incorporate into or integrate with the Deliverables.23

4.3
Background IPR License. Service Provider hereby grants to Customer a non-exclusive,
perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-free, sub-licensable, worldwide right to use, display, perform
and reproduce Background IPR in connection with Customer’s use, operation, modification,
enhancement and maintenance of the Deliverables.24 Additionally, Customer may transfer its
license to, or may sublicense, Background IPR to the extent that such Background IPR are
incorporated into a Deliverable, if Customer transfers or sublicenses such Deliverable.25

4.4
Assignment. To the extent that any Intellectual Property Right is created in favour of Service
Provider or the Consultants under Applicable Law, Service Provider shall, and shall ensure that
the Consultants shall irrevocably assign and agree to assign to Customer all right, title and
interest, worldwide in and to the Deliverables. Service Provider shall not, and shall ensure that
the Consultants do not challenge the validity of Customer’s ownership in the Deliverables.
Service Provider agrees to execute any other document reasonably necessary to carry out the
purpose of this Agreement.

5.
PERSONNEL26

5.1
Service Provider shall be or deemed to be the sole employer of all persons appointed by it,
including all Consultants (“Personnel”) to perform Services for Customer, under this

23The language here favours Customer. An alternate provision favouring Service Provider would be
that Service Provider owns all Background IPR to the exclusion of Customer.
24Again, this is Customer friendly. To make it Service Provider friendly, the license may be made
revocable and non-transferable, with some scope for royalty.
25Again, this provision may be deleted in order to make the clause Service Provider friendly.
26Service Provider may use its employees or consultants to perform Services for Customer. It is
important that the employment status of these personnel be clarified upfront. Typically, Service
Provider will be considered the employer on record of all personnel it engages to perform Services. All
registration and payment obligations, including payment of salary and emoluments for the personnel
would fall within Service Provider’s responsibility. If this position is not clarified upfront, it is quite
possible that the personnel, especially personnel working on Customer premises, utilising Customer
infrastructure and facilities, may be in a positon to claim employment benefits from Customer.

[PAGE 14]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

14

Agreement. Customer reserves the right to request Service Provider to remove any of the
Personnel, on written notice of [insert number] [insert number in words] days27, specifying
reasons related to performance. Service Provider shall replace any such Personnel, so requested
to be removed, with an employee of equivalent experience as agreed to by Customer. It is
hereby clarified that the removal of any Personnel under this Clause does not affect his/her
employment status with Service Provider, which shall be determined in the sole discretion of
Service Provider, in accordance with its employment policies.28

5.2
Service Provider shall be responsible for complying in all respects with the provisions of all
statutes, rules and regulations of the Government and other relevant statutory bodies under
various Acts in respect of the Personnel, including but not limited to the Minimum Wages Act,
1948, Employees State Insurance Act, 1948, Employees Provident Fund & Miscellaneous
Provisions Act, 1952, Payment of Bonus Act, 1965, Contract Labour (Regulation & Abolition)
Act, 1970 and Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 and Customer will not be liable in this respect in
any manner whatsoever, except to the extent such laws are applicable to Customer in its
capacity as a principal employer.

6.
CONSULTANTS29

6.1
Customer acknowledges that Service Provider would, for the purpose of performing the
Services under this Agreement, utilize the services of contract labour, independent contractors
or consultants (“Consultants”). However, Service Provider acknowledges, agrees and
covenants that it shall assume full responsibility in connection with the Consultants and work
undertaken by the Consultants and no responsibility, costs or liability for whatsoever reason in
this regard will fall on Customer or its affiliates or subsidiaries. The Consultants should have
requisite skills needed to perform the tasks assigned to them. Any act undertaken by a

27Typically 30 days.
28In some cases, customers may require that personnel engaged by service providers undergo training
with customer for a particular period. If customer is unhappy with particular workers, they have the
opportunity to ask service provider to replace them.
29This Clause may not be applicable in case Service Provider only utilises its own employees perform
Services. In certain cases, Service Provider’s work may be outsourced to third party contractors /
consultants.

[PAGE 15]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

15

Consultant shall be considered to be an act of Service Provider for the purpose of this
Agreement.30

7.
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

7.1
Each Party hereby represents and warrants to the other Party as follows:

(a)
Manner of Performance. It shall perform its obligations under this Agreement and
shall at all times comply with all Applicable Law including any central or state law,
rules or regulations made there under.

(b)
Organization and Standing. It is duly organized and validly constituted and existing
under the Applicable Law in India and has full power and authority (corporate or
otherwise) and has all material Government Approvals necessary to own its assets and
properties and to carry on its business as now conducted.

(c)
Authority and Enforceability. It has all necessary power, authority and approvals to
execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform all its obligations arising or created
hereunder.

(d)
No Contractual Restrictions. It is under no contractual or other restrictions or
obligations that are inconsistent with the execution of this Agreement that will interfere
with the performance of obligations under this Agreement.

7.2
Service Provider hereby represents and warrants that:

(a)
it shall, in performing its obligations under this Agreement, observe the highest
professional standards of integrity and fair dealing; and

(b)
it shall comply with Applicable Law in connection with performance of Services.

30This Clause is included to ensure that a breach by a Consultant would be considered a breach of
Service Provider’s obligations under this Agreement.

[PAGE 16]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

16

7.3
Each of the representations and warranties shall be construed as a separate representation,
warranty, covenant or undertaking, as the case may be, and shall not be limited by the terms of
any other representation or warranty or by any other term of this Agreement. Each of the
representations and warranties shall be valid for the entire Term and till the continuance of this
Agreement.

7.4
Each Party agrees that any breach of confidentiality by the other Party may cause irreparable
damage to the affected Party for which recovery of money damages would be inadequate. Each
Party in such situation would be entitled to seek equitable remedies including injunctive relief.

7.5
The Parties shall not represent themselves to be acting on behalf of the other Party, or use the
other Party’s name or corporate logo of any Intellectual Property Rights in any manner
whatsoever, or undertake any act, deed or thing on behalf of the other Party without obtaining
the prior written approval of such Party.

8.
INDEMNIFICATION

8.1
Each Party agrees to indemnify, defend and hold the other Party and its directors, shareholders,
and Affiliates (“Indemnified Persons”) harmless for damages, costs, claims, injuries, losses,
or liabilities including reasonable attorneys’ fees (collectively referred to as “Losses”) incurred
by such other Party, from any claims.

(a) arising from the indemnifying Party’s material breach of any obligation, representation or
warranty under this Agreement; or

(b) relating to any physical damage to property, or personal injury or death, caused by the
indemnifying Party or any of its affiliates, agents or subcontractors

8.2
In case of any litigation or other claim against the Indemnified Persons which triggers the
indemnification obligations of Service Provider, Service Provider shall defend any such claim
or action, consistent with the Indemnified Person’s right hereunder, negotiate its settlement or
compromise, unless otherwise mutually agreed to in writing provided however that the
Indemnified Persons may participate in such defence or settlement negotiations and pay its own
costs associated therewith.

8.3
The Indemnified Persons shall have the right to take any action on behalf of itself, to settle,

[PAGE 17]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

17

adjust, defend or otherwise dispose of such claim, in which case Service Provider shall, upon
being demanded by the Indemnified Persons, forthwith indemnify the entire amount to the
Indemnified Persons. The Parties shall co-operate with each other and provide all assistance,
information, documents etc. that may be required by the other Party to the settle the claims.

8.4
This Clause 8 shall survive the termination or expiry of this Agreement.

9.
TERM AND TERMINATION

9.1
Effective dates. This Agreement will commence on the Effective Date and continue in full
force and effect for a period of [insert number] [insert number in words] year (the “Term”),
unless terminated sooner in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. Notwithstanding
the provisions of this Clause 9.1, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect as to
any Services that are outstanding under this Agreement [or any statement of work executed
pursuant to this Agreement] (if applicable) that is current as of the termination of this
Agreement, until (a) such Services are completed; or (b) the Parties agree to terminate this
Agreement as to such Services.

9.2
Termination for Cause. If Service Provider breaches a material provision of the Agreement,
then Customer may terminate this Agreement if the breach remains un-remediated for [insert
number] [insert number in words] days after Customer provides notice of the breach to
Service Provider.

9.3
Termination for Convenience. The Parties may mutually terminate this Agreement by
providing [insert number] [insert number in words] days’ written notice.

9.4
Delivery and Return upon Expiration or Termination. Upon termination of this Agreement,
Service Provider shall:

(a)
within [insert number] [insert number in words]  days from date of termination,
deliver the Deliverables to Customer, whether complete or incomplete; and

(b)
within [insert number] [insert number in words]  days from date of termination, return
all Confidential Information belonging to Customer and / or destroy all copies of
Confidential Information in its possession, as instructed by Service Provider.

[PAGE 18]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

18

9.5
Consequences of Termination. The termination of this Agreement shall not:

(a)
In anyway affect or prejudice any right accrued to any Party against the other Party,
prior to such termination.

(b)
Extinguish the rights and obligations of the Parties under this Agreement, which either
expressly or by their nature survive the termination of this Agreement, unless any of such
rights, obligations or liabilities are waived in writing. Further, all amounts, if any, then
due and unpaid to a Party by the other Party under this Agreement, as well as other
amounts, if any, accrued but not yet payable, shall forthwith become due and payable.

10.
NON-COMPETE31

Neither Service Provider nor its promoters or directors shall, during the tenure of this
Agreement, and for a period of [insert number] [insert number in words] years thereafter,
directly or indirectly engage in, as an employee, associate, consultant, proprietor, partner,
director or otherwise, or have any ownership interest in, or participate in any business which
competes with Customer’s Business (or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries in India) or carry out
any of the preceding for a competitor of Customer (or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries in
India).

11.
NON-SOLICITATION32

Neither Service Provider nor its promoters or directors shall, during the tenure of this
Agreement, and for a period of [insert number] [insert number in words] years thereafter,
either for itself or through, or on behalf of or in conjunction with any other person, persons,
partnership, company, limited liability company, or other entity or association, solicit or employ
any person who is employees with Customer, and shall not induce or attempt to induce any
such persons to the leave their employment.

31Service Provider may demand similar non-compete obligations from Customer.
32Service Provider may demand similar non-solicitation obligations from Customer.

[PAGE 19]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

19

12.
ANNOUNCEMENTS

12.1
Prior approval of announcements. Subject to Clause 12.2 below, no disclosure or
announcement relating to the existence or subject matter of this Agreement will be made or
issued by or on behalf of any Party without the prior written approval of the other Party.33

12.2
Permitted disclosures and announcements. Nothing in this Agreement prohibits a Party from
(i) making such disclosure or announcement as is required by Applicable Law or the rules of
any stock or securities exchange, or (ii) making or sending any announcement to a customer,
supplier, business partner, agent or client informing about the Services contemplated under this
Agreement in a format agreed to in writing by the Parties.

13.
CONFIDENTIALITY

13.1
Subject to Clause 13.2, each Party (“Receiving Party”) will treat as strictly confidential and
not disclose to any person:

(a)
the existence, contents and subject matter of this Agreement except as provided in Clause
12 (Announcements);

(b)
the negotiations relating to this Agreement;

(c)
information relating to the business of either Party; and

(d)
any information received by the Receiving Party from any other Party (“Disclosing
Party”)

(collectively, the “Confidential Information”).

13.2
Confidential Information will not be used or reproduced for any purpose or be disclosed to any

33Not all contracting counterparties will want a prohibition on announcements. On the other hand,
certain transactions require complete confidentiality. This needs to be evaluated on a case to case
basis.

[PAGE 20]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

20

person other than (a) as specifically authorized in this Agreement or (b) to a Party’s directors,
officers, employees and professional advisers on a need-to-know basis and by binding such
recipients  to the same level of confidentiality as such Party. Each Party will take reasonable
action to secure against theft, loss or unauthorized disclosure or use of Confidential Information
in its possession.

13.3
Confidential Information does not include any information which (i) on the date of the receipt
by the Receiving Party is in the public domain or is subsequently published or otherwise
becomes part of the public domain through no fault of the Receiving Party; (ii) is already known
and in the possession of the Receiving Party on the date of the disclosure as evidenced by
written records; (iii) is independently developed by the Receiving Party without having access
to the Confidential Information; or (iv) has been received by the Receiving Party after the date
of the disclosure from a third party who did not receive such information under an obligation
of confidentiality.

13.4
If a Party is required, by Applicable Law or the rules of any stock or securities exchange, to
disclose any Confidential Information, then, (i) prior to making the disclosure, it will notify the
other Party in writing of such requirement for disclosure except where it is not reasonably
practicable in the circumstances. If the other Party raises objections to the intended disclosure,
the Parties will engage in good faith negotiations to try to modify or alter the content or terms
of said disclosure in order to limit the proposed disclosure as much as possible. If, for the
reasons stated above, it is not possible for the Party to give prior notice, it must notify the other
Party immediately after the disclosure has been made.

13.5
Each Party acknowledges that all their respective Confidential Information, whether or not
formally marked or identified as confidential are their exclusive property and the respective
Party will continue to retain ownership over their Confidential Information.

13.6
No Party will at any time seek to assert ownership of or any rights in any Confidential
Information of the other Party.

13.7
Each Party acknowledges that any breach by it of the provisions of this Clause 13 would cause
irreparable injury to the other Party for which they would have no adequate remedy under
Applicable Law and for which damages would not constitute reasonable recompense; and,
accordingly, it shall be open to the other Party to apply for and obtain injunctory/declaratory
relief against the former in breach or allegedly in breach, and it shall submit to orders and

[PAGE 21]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

21

injunctions prayed and waive objections, if any, to such actions or proceedings or relief sought
to the extent permitted by Applicable Law.

14.
COSTS AND EXPENSES
14.1
The [Service Provider/Customer]34 will bear the cost of stamp duty, registration fee and all
other expenses incidental thereto.35
14.2
The Parties will bear their respective cost and expenses, including, legal, accounting, and other
professional advisory fees incurred in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery
of this Agreement.

15.
NOTICES

15.1
Any notice or other writing required or permitted to be given under this Agreement or for the
purposes of this Agreement (“Notice”) to any Party will be in writing, in the English language,
and will be either personally delivered or transmitted by:

(i)  postage prepaid registered mail (air mail if international), with acknowledgment due;

(ii)  internationally recognized courier;

(iii)  email;36 or

34The cost can be commercially agreed amongst the Parties. Attribution of taxes (direct and indirect),
if any, should be preferably dealt with in a separate clause.
35The obligation to pay stamp duty and registration charges may differ from case to case basis, as per
the commercial understanding between the Parties. Commercial agreements in India are chargeable
with stamp duty. Stamp duty rates vary depending on the State where the agreement is executed or
brought into. Stamp duty needs to be paid on agreements prior to execution or (where a document is
executed outside a State) within a prescribed number of days within which the agreement is brought
into a particular State.
36Issuing notices by e-mail has the inherent risk of such notices being intercepted, arriving late or not
arriving at all. If the receipt is disputed, the client may have to prove receipt, which will involve
inspections of hard disks and servers. It is important not to rely on automatic ‘read receipt’ software,
as such receipts can be triggered by someone other than the intended recipient reading the e-mail or

[PAGE 22]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

22

(iv)  facsimile transmission.

The address for service of each Party is as follows:

(i)
if to Service Provider,
at

:
[insert details]
Attention

:
[insert details]
Fax No.

:
[insert details]
Email

:
[insert details]

(ii)
if to Customer,
at

:
[insert details]
Attention

:
[insert details]
Fax No.

:
[insert details]
Email

:
[insert details]

A Party may, by a written notice, designate another address for service of notices to it.

15.2
Such notice will be deemed to have been given:

(i)
[insert number] [insert number in words] 37 Business Days after posting, if
transmitted by registered mail or air mail;

(ii)
the date of receipt, if delivered personally or by courier service;

(iii)
the date of receipt, if delivered by email; or

(iv)
the date of transmission with confirmed answer back, if transmitted by facsimile
transmission,

by virtue of a firewall. Therefore, the best course of action is to provide for multiple methods of
confirmation of receipt- see Clause 15.2 below.

37 Typically this would be 3 to 5 days.

[PAGE 23]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

23

whichever occurs first.

16.
ENTIRE AGREEMENT

This Agreement and its attachments, including Schedules, constitute the entire agreement of
the Parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement and supersede all prior
agreements 38, understandings and representations, written and oral. If there is inconsistency
between any provision of this Agreement and any of its attachments or schedule, the provisions
of the Agreement will prevail.

17.
ASSIGNMENT

This Agreement and the rights and obligations hereunder are binding upon and personal to the
Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns. A Party may not assign this
Agreement or any of its rights, benefits or obligations under this Agreement to any other person
without the prior written consent of the other Party.39

18.
FURTHER ASSURANCES40

38 Consider whether there are any other documents not referred to in the Agreement which need to be
included here. If so, consider specifically terminating such documents to ensure that there is no conflict
going forward. Also consider whether certain portions of the prior documents are to continue – if so,
such portions should be drafted in to this agreement. If there are any side letters/ transaction documents
which are required to be kept completely confidential, it is pertinent to have such side letters signed
post the Agreement and such side letter/ transaction documents should specifically refer to the main
Agreement.
39 Please ensure that the description of the Parties, specifically, the assignment, succession and
nomination language is consistent with this assignment clause.
40 This Clause is a statement of intent by the Parties’ that they will do such acts and sign all such
documents which might not have been contemplated at the time of signing of the Agreement, but which
later is found to be required, and which are not of such magnitude as to lead to frustration of the

[PAGE 24]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

24

The Parties will, with reasonable diligence, do all such things and provide all such reasonable
assurances as may be required to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Each Party will provide such further documents or instruments to the any other Party as may
reasonably be required to effect the purpose of this Agreement and carry out its provisions.

19.
AMENDMENTS AND WAIVERS41

19.1
This Agreement may be amended only in writing duly executed by all of the Parties to this
Agreement.

19.2
A Party may, in writing, waive any breach of any provision of this Agreement by another Party,
and, unless otherwise stated in such written waiver, it will be limited to the specific breach
waived. A waiver will not operate or be construed as a waiver of any continuing or succeeding
breach of such provision or a waiver or modification of such provision or as a waiver in respect
of any other or further failure whether of a like or different character.

19.3
No failure or delay by a Party to exercise any right, power,  privilege or remedy hereunder will
be deemed a waiver of such Party’s rights, powers, privileges or remedies hereunder or will be
deemed a waiver of such Party’s rights to subsequently exercise the same.

20.
SEVERABILITY

If any provision of this Agreement is determined to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in part,
then such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability will attach only to such provision or part of
such provision and this Agreement shall be interpreted and construed as if such terms and
provisions had never been included herein. The remaining part of such provision and all other
provisions of this Agreement will continue to remain in full force and effect. In such event, the
Parties undertake to endeavour in good faith to replace the invalid, illegal or unenforceable

Agreement itself. For example, if a particular customer / vendor of one of the parties requires a comfort
letter or communication on the transaction, the further assurance clause can be invoked.

41 The requirement for written consent for amendment is designed to exclude the possibility of informal
and inadvertent oral amendments.

[PAGE 25]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

25

provision by a valid, legal and enforceable provision which contains, as nearly as possible, the
rights and obligations contained in the provision to be replaced.

21.
COUNTERPARTS42

This Agreement may be executed by the Parties in separate counterparts, each of which when
so executed and delivered will be an original, but all such counterparts will together constitute
one and the same instrument. The Parties may enter into this Agreement by signing any one or
more of such originals or counterparts. An executed signature page of a counterpart scanned
and sent by e-mail will be deemed delivery of an executed counterpart of this Agreement and,
in such case, without prejudice to the validity of this Agreement, each Party will provide the
other(s) with the original of such page as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter.

22.
RIGHTS OF THIRD PARTIES43

Nothing expressed or implied in this Agreement is intended or will be construed to confer upon
or give any person other than the Parties hereto, any rights or remedies under or by reason of
this Agreement or any transaction contemplated by this Agreement.

23.
SURVIVABILITY44

42This Clause is useful where the parties are executing separate copies of an agreement. Further, it
must be remembered that a nominal stamp duty is payable on a counterpart, however, the stamp duty
varies from State to State as per the applicable stamp duty provisions of the concerned State.
43This Clause is intended to exclude any third party rights being created pursuant to this Agreement.
The Clause merits importance as it explicitly negates the possibility of all third party rights, thus
establishing the privity of contract only between the parties thereto.
44This Clause is meant to ensure survival of certain provisions of the Agreement post termination such
as dispute resolution, indemnity amongst others. Survival of these Clauses is important to ensure that
even if the Agreement does not reach its intended conclusion, parties are in a position to recover and
claim their rights that have arisen prior to execution of the Agreement, so as to restore the parties to
the same position as they were in, before taking certain actions pursuant to the Agreement. Typically,
clauses such as representations and warranties, indemnification, confidentiality, dispute resolution and
notices are described in this clause as surviving termination.

[PAGE 26]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

26

The termination of this Agreement will in no event terminate or prejudice (a) any accrued right
or obligation; or (b) the provisions of following Clauses:

(a)
Clause 1 (Definitions and Interpretation);
(b)
Clause 3.4 (Taxes and Withholding);
(c)
Clause 8 (Indemnification);
(d)
Clause 9.4 (Delivery and Return upon Expiration or Termination);
(e)
Clause 9.5 (Consequences of Termination);
(f)
Clause 10 (Non-Compete);
(g)
Clause 11 (Non-Solicitation);
(h)
Clause 13 (Confidentiality);
(i)
Clause 15 (Notices);
(j)
Clause 23 (Survivability);
(k)
Clause 24 (Cumulative Rights and Specific Performance);
(l)
Clause 26 (Governing Law, Jurisdiction and Dispute Resolution); and
(m)
[include any other relevant provisions].

24.
CUMULATIVE RIGHTS AND SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE

24.1
The rights, powers, privileges and remedies provided in this Agreement are cumulative and are
not exclusive of any rights, powers, privileges or remedies provided by Applicable Law or
otherwise. Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent a Party from enforcing its right by such
remedies as may be available under Applicable Law.

24.2
Subject to Applicable Law, in the event of any breach or threatened breach by either Party of
any covenant, obligation or other provision set forth in this Agreement, the other Party will be
entitled, in addition to any other remedy that may be available to it, to seek (i) a decree or order
of specific performance to enforce the observance and performance of such covenant,
obligation or other provisions; and/ or (ii) an injunction restraining such breach or threatened
breach.

25.
NO AGENCY OR PARTNERSHIP

25.1
This Agreement does not constitute a partnership or agency between the Parties or any of them.

[PAGE 27]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

27

26.
GOVERNING LAW, JURISDICTION AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION

26.1
Governing Law and Jurisdiction

The provisions of this Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with the
laws of India. Subject to Clause 26.2 below, the courts at [insert name of city], India shall have
the exclusive jurisdiction to settle any claim or matter arising under this Agreement.45

26.2
Dispute Resolution46

(a)
In the event that any dispute arises between the Parties in connection with this Lease
Deed, the Parties will conduct negotiations in good faith to solve such dispute. If mutual
resolution cannot be reached within [insert number] [insert number in words] days
after the commencement of such negotiations, either Party will be free to refer such
dispute to arbitral tribunal comprising of [insert number] [insert number in words]
arbitrators wherein each Party shall be entitled to appoint an arbitrator and the two
party-appointed arbitrators shall then appoint a third arbitrator47. The arbitration

45The Parties can mutually decide a court at any place within India or where the registered office of the
Service Provider/Customer is situated.
46 Arbitration may be institutional or non-institutional.  Institutional arbitration is conducted under the
auspices of an arbitral forum – some examples are: Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC);
London Court of International Arbitration (LCIA), Dubai International Arbitration Centre (DIAC),
Swiss Arbitration Association (ASA), International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) etc. In such a case
the rules of arbitration of the chosen institution would apply – and these would include the appointment
of arbitrators and detailed conduct of the arbitration with the institution acting as the secretariat.
Non-institutional arbitration is managed by the arbitrators appointed by the parties. The parties may
choose to conduct the arbitration under the rules of an institution but not use the institution itself to
conduct the arbitration or the parties may choose to follow default rules laid down by an arbitration
law – for example the Indian Arbitration & Conciliation Act.
This Clause provides for ad hoc arbitration between the Parties. Parties may consider arbitration by
an institution (such as, LCIA, SIAC, ICC, etc.), in which case, the model arbitration clause suggested
by such institution (with modifications if necessary) should be incorporated in this Agreement.
47 Instead of referring the dispute between the Parties to a panel of three arbitrators, the parties have
an option to refer the dispute arising out of this Lease Deed to a sole arbitrator to be mutually decided

[PAGE 28]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

28

proceedings shall be governed in accordance with the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,
1996 and rules framed thereunder (“Rules”). The venue, place and seat of the arbitration
shall be [insert name of place] and the language of the arbitration proceedings shall be
English. The award rendered shall be in writing, and shall set out the reasons for the
arbitral tribunal’s decision. The award shall allocate or apportion the costs of the
arbitration as the arbitral tribunal deems fair. Any award made in such arbitration will
be final and binding on the Parties. This Lease Deed, and the rights and obligations of
the Parties shall remain in full force and effect pending the award in such arbitration
proceeding, which award, if appropriate, shall determine whether and when, any
termination shall become effective.

(b)
Judgment upon any arbitral award rendered may be entered in any court having
jurisdiction, or application may be made to such court for a judicial acceptance of the
award and an order of enforcement, as the case may be.

[Signature page follows]

by both the Parties. This should be decided keeping in mind the costs which are likely to be incurred in
connection with an appointment of arbitrator are commensurate with the contract value.

[PAGE 29]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

29

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Service Provider and Customer have executed this Agreement in
duplicate as of the day, month and year first above written.48

Executed for and on behalf of [insert full name of the Service Provider]
by:

_____________________
[insert name]
[insert designation]
insert place]

Executed for and on behalf of [insert full name of the Customer]
by:

_____________________
[insert name]
[insert designation]
insert place]

48 Modify signature boxes as appropriate. Be careful when inserting signature boxes for individuals –
the opening sentence should change to ‘EXECUTED by’.

[PAGE 30]
J. Sagar Associates
Draft for discussions only | Privileged & Confidential
Template Services Agreement
February 2018

30

SCHEDULE I

SCOPE OF SERVICES

[To be inserted]